#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Historical Backgrounds of Ion Pairing Studies in Aqueous Solutions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Motivations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite being a simple chemical system, studying ion pairing in aqueous
 solutions could be the key to understanding many other complex chemical
 reactions of current research interests, for the prescence of the ions
 in aqueous solution is an integral part of human body, seawater, catalytic
 environments, or energy-efficient materials.
 There are numerous evidences of the ions in aqueous solutions that play
 crucial roles in complex biological processes, such as the effects on macrobiom
olecules like proteins or DNA, such as salt bridge formations in proteins,
 protein-DNA interactions, or assisting the creation of tertiary and quarternary
 structures of proteins, [CITE MINOR] Moreover, the ions in an oceanic environme
nt also regulates the chemistry of both the ocean and the atmosphere, which
 could provide a better mechanistic understanding of global warming.
 [CITE MINOR] Recent advances of batteries and energy materials also necessitate
 a good understanding in ion transport in aqueous solution.
 [CITE MINOR] [ABOUT 142 WORDS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
 TRY TO MAKE IT CLOSE TO 200]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With water molecules removed, the ion pairing interactions is easily characteriz
ed as mostly electrostatic interactions between the cation and the anion,
 which does not have any associated barriers due to the inverse dependence
 on the interionic separation, 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

.
 However, ions in aqueous solutions behave differently, as polar water molecules
 could arrange around the ions by the means of charge - dipole interactions,
 solvating the ions.
 Thus, the solvation structure around the ions need to change in order for
 the cation and the anion to come close.
 The need to overcome the solvation energy of the ions to put two ions closer
 together; hence, involves a free energy barrier.
 For this reason, thermodynamics and kinetics information of ionic association
 in aqueous solutions can be obtained given that the free energy landscape
 of this chemical process can be extracted, paving the ways to isolate the
 most likely solvation structures around the ions and elucidate the mechanisms
 of the reaction in terms of the proper reaction coordinate for this system.
 [166 WORDS]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The biggest obstacle for thoroughly understanding not only this kind of
 process, but also the thermodynamics and the kinetics of all kinds of chemical
 reactions, is the lack of knowledge of such a reaction coordinate.
 Throughout the document, the reaction coordinate is defined as a linear
 combination of functions 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{i}(\mathbf{x})$
\end_inset

, where each 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{i}$
\end_inset

 is called a collective variable.
 A collective variable is a function of all the Cartesian coordinate in
 the phase space defining a collective group of atoms in the regions of
 our interests, which includes, but not limited to, 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

, the angle, the dihedral angle, or even the coordination number of an atom.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\Psi=\sum_{i}c_{i}\xi_{i}(\mathbf{x})
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The definition of a proper reaction coordinate 
\begin_inset Formula $\Psi$
\end_inset

 for a chemical reaction is such coordinate should capture the slowest motion
 [CHECK] across the free energy barrier in the direction of the isocommitting
 surface.
 However, in most cases, we do not know a proper combination of the collective
 variables, nor that we know which collective variables should we choose.
 Therefore, most of the attempts to study the mechanisms of chemical reactions
 usually based on the intuitive guesses of a few collective variables.
 As a result, we cannot know with certainty about the true underlying mechanism
 that actually represents the slowest motion, for we only have a limited
 picture of all the influences.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Backgrounds
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The accepted concept of ion pairing that is widely cited today came from
 the work of Fuoss [P-JACS-1954-v76-Sadek] and Winstein [P-JACS-1956-v78-Winstei
n] during the 1950s.
 Before their work, the solvent was usually modeled as a part of the continuum
 model, where the solvent's electrostatic influence was treated as one single
 entity, which gave rise to a two-state model.
 One of those two states being the associated states, where the ions are
 held close together by their electrostatic interactions, and another state
 being the dissociated state, where the ions are separated far enough to
 not attracting each other again.
 However, Fuoss and Winstein showed in their work that there exists another
 state that lies in between the dissociated and the associated states of
 the ions.
 Therefore, the state in between shall not have the ions too separated that
 they do not see another's attraction, but not too close that the association
 is mainly the electrostatic interaction between the ions.
 For this reason, the state in between could be thought of as another associated
 state with some influence from the solvent.
 In this document, we will call this state the solvent separated ion pair
 (SSIP), and the associated state the contacted ion pair (CIP) for convenience.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The earliest simulation that attempted to study this type of reaction came
 from the work of Belch et al.
 in 1986.
 [P-JACS-1986-v108-Belch] Although the work did not compute the free energy,
 it was among the first attempts to analyze the behavior of the solvent
 through computer simulations.
 Belch et al.
 proposed that for a solution of NaCl in water, the Na+ cation tries to
 maintain the octahedral structure in the CIP state, the SSIP state, and
 the dissociated state.
 The work also pointed out that as the dissociation takes place, one water
 molecule would rotate to form a bridge between the two ions and the hydrogen
 bond structure between water molecules in the first and the second solvation
 shells become disrupted.
 It is evident from this result that the solvent plays a role in the dissociatio
n of CIP.
 However, how the solvent plays the role in this process still remained
 a mystery at that point.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thermodynamics and the kinetics model of this type of reaction would
 not complete without the free energy landscape and the information of the
 free energy barrier between the SSIP and the CIP states.
 For any simulations performed under the canonical ensemble (fixed numbers
 of particles, volume, and temperature), the relative Helmholtz free energy
 can be computed by just taking a natural logarithm of the probability of
 finding a particular configuration of the ensemble,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
A(\mathbf{x})=-k_{B}T\ln\mathbb{P}(\mathbf{x})
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}$
\end_inset

 is the Boltzmann's constant, and 
\begin_inset Formula $T$
\end_inset

 is the temperature of the simulation.
 Since a collective variable 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi(\mathbf{x})$
\end_inset

 is also a function of the Cartesian coordinates in the phase space, the
 Helmholtz free energy could also be computed in terms of the collective
 variable through the following relationship,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
A\left(\xi(\mathbf{x})\right)=-k_{B}T\ln\int\delta\left(\xi(\mathbf{x}')-\xi(\mathbf{x})\right)e^{-V(\mathbf{x})/k_{B}T}d\mathbf{x}'
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Initial attempts on free energy landscape computation began from a very
 simple model of 1 collective variable chosen from an intuitive guess.
 Since we hope to study the association / dissociation of the ions, the
 most natural collective variable that would serve the purpose would be
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

.
 Hence, the relative Helmholtz free energy based on this collective variable
 would allow us to quantitatively determine the free energy barrier that
 separates the SSIP state from the CIP state.
 Numerous works have since published the one-dimensional free energy landscapes
 in 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

, most of which allowed both qualitative and quantitative distinctions between
 the SSIP and CIP states as two separate metastable states.
 [CITE 1D WORKS] For group 1 cations, Fennell et al.
 published detailed comparisons of the free energy trend down the same group.
 [P-JPhysChemB-2009-v113].
 He found that the CIP structure of LiCl has a very steep well of about
 XX kcal/mol, whereas the CIP free energy barrier of CsCl is very shallow,
 and for CsCl, the CIP structure is even less thermodynamically stable than
 the SSIP structure.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although the free energy of ion pairing in aqueous solutions in terms of
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 can give us a rough idea of the SSIP and the CIP behaviors of the system,
 it does not capture the dynamics of the solvent as hinted by Belch et al.
 [CITE], which was confirmed by the later work of Geissler et al.
 [P-JPhysChemB-1999-v103-Geissler].
 In the work of Geissler et al., they employed transition path sampling to
 characterize the behavior at the transition state [CHECK], and found that
 there are many probable transition pathways where collective motion of
 solvent molecules play an important role.
 A subsequent work by Ballard and Dellago also pointed out that using only
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 as a hypothetical reaction coordinate for this process is inherently a
 bad choice.
 [P-JPhysChemB-2012-v116-Ballard] They also found that the influence of
 the solvent for the NaCl reaction extends up to the third shell, consistent
 with what was found by Belch et al.
 [P-JACS-1986-v108-Belch].
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
