#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Historical Backgrounds of Ion Pairing Studies in Aqueous Solutions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Problem and its Significance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite being a simple chemical system, studying ion pairing in aqueous
 solutions could be the key to understanding many other complex chemical
 reactions of current research interests, for the prescence of the ions
 in aqueous solution is an integral part of human body, seawater, catalytic
 environments, or energy-efficient materials.
 There are numerous evidences of the ions in aqueous solutions that play
 crucial roles in complex biological processes, such as the effects on macrobiom
olecules like proteins or DNA, such as salt bridge formations in proteins,
 protein-DNA interactions, or assisting the creation of tertiary and quarternary
 structures of proteins, [CITE MINOR] Moreover, the ions in an oceanic environme
nt also regulates the chemistry of both the ocean and the atmosphere, which
 could provide a better mechanistic understanding of global warming.
 [CITE MINOR] Recent advances of batteries and energy materials also necessitate
 a good understanding in ion transport in aqueous solution.
 [CITE MINOR] [ABOUT 142 WORDS IN THIS PARAGRAPH.
 TRY TO MAKE IT CLOSE TO 200]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With water molecules removed, the ion pairing interactions is easily characteriz
ed as mostly electrostatic interactions between the cation and the anion,
 which does not have any associated barriers due to the inverse dependence
 on the interionic separation, 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

.
 However, ions in aqueous solutions behave differently, as polar water molecules
 could arrange around the ions by the means of charge - dipole interactions,
 solvating the ions.
 Thus, the solvation structure around the ions need to change in order for
 the cation and the anion to come close.
 The need to overcome the solvation energy of the ions to put two ions closer
 together; hence, involves a free energy barrier.
 For this reason, thermodynamics and kinetics information of ionic association
 in aqueous solutions can be obtained given that the free energy landscape
 of this chemical process can be extracted, paving the ways to isolate the
 most likely solvation structures around the ions and elucidate the mechanisms
 of the reaction in terms of the proper reaction coordinate for this system.
 [166 WORDS]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The biggest obstacle for thoroughly understanding not only this kind of
 process, but also the thermodynamics and the kinetics of all kinds of chemical
 reactions, is the lack of knowledge of such a reaction coordinate.
 Throughout the document, the reaction coordinate is defined as a linear
 combination of functions 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{i}(\mathbf{x})$
\end_inset

, where each 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi_{i}$
\end_inset

 is called a collective variable.
 A collective variable is a function of all the Cartesian coordinate in
 the phase space defining a collective group of atoms in the regions of
 our interests, which includes, but not limited to, 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

, the angle, the dihedral angle, or even the coordination number of an atom.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\Psi=\sum_{i}c_{i}\xi_{i}(\mathbf{x})
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The definition of a proper reaction coordinate 
\begin_inset Formula $\Psi$
\end_inset

 for a chemical reaction is such coordinate should capture the slowest motion
 [CHECK] across the free energy barrier in the direction of the isocommitting
 surface.
 However, in most cases, we do not know a proper combination of the collective
 variables, nor that we know which collective variables should we choose.
 Therefore, most of the attempts to study the mechanisms of chemical reactions
 usually based on the intuitive guesses of a few collective variables.
 As a result, we cannot know with certainty about the true underlying mechanism
 that actually represents the slowest motion, for we only have a limited
 picture of all the influences.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Prior Investigations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The accepted concept of ion pairing that is widely cited today came from
 the work of Fuoss [P-JACS-1954-v76-Sadek] and Winstein [P-JACS-1956-v78-Winstei
n] during the 1950s.
 Before their work, the solvent was usually modeled as a part of the continuum
 model, where the solvent's electrostatic influence was treated as one single
 entity, which gave rise to a two-state model.
 One of those two states being the associated states, where the ions are
 held close together by their electrostatic interactions, and another state
 being the dissociated state, where the ions are separated far enough to
 not attracting each other again.
 However, Fuoss and Winstein showed in their work that there exists another
 state that lies in between the dissociated and the associated states of
 the ions.
 Therefore, the state in between shall not have the ions too separated that
 they do not see another's attraction, but not too close that the association
 is mainly the electrostatic interaction between the ions.
 For this reason, the state in between could be thought of as another associated
 state with some influence from the solvent.
 In this document, we will call this state the solvent separated ion pair
 (SSIP), and the associated state the contacted ion pair (CIP) for convenience.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The earliest simulation that attempted to study this type of reaction came
 from the work of Belch et al.
 in 1986.
 [P-JACS-1986-v108-Belch] Although the work did not compute the free energy,
 it was among the first attempts to analyze the behavior of the solvent
 through computer simulations.
 Belch et al.
 proposed that for a solution of NaCl in water, the Na+ cation tries to
 maintain the octahedral structure in the CIP state, the SSIP state, and
 the dissociated state.
 The work also pointed out that as the dissociation takes place, one water
 molecule would rotate to form a bridge between the two ions and the hydrogen
 bond structure between water molecules in the first and the second solvation
 shells become disrupted.
 It is evident from this result that the solvent plays a role in the dissociatio
n of CIP.
 However, how the solvent plays the role in this process still remained
 a mystery at that point.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thermodynamics and the kinetics model of this type of reaction would
 not complete without the free energy landscape and the information of the
 free energy barrier between the SSIP and the CIP states.
 For any simulations performed under the canonical ensemble (fixed numbers
 of particles, volume, and temperature), the relative Helmholtz free energy
 can be computed by just taking a natural logarithm of the probability of
 finding a particular configuration of the ensemble,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
A(\mathbf{x})=-k_{B}T\ln\mathbb{P}(\mathbf{x})
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
where 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}$
\end_inset

 is the Boltzmann's constant, and 
\begin_inset Formula $T$
\end_inset

 is the temperature of the simulation.
 Since a collective variable 
\begin_inset Formula $\xi(\mathbf{x})$
\end_inset

 is also a function of the Cartesian coordinates in the phase space, the
 Helmholtz free energy could also be computed in terms of the collective
 variable through the following relationship,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
A\left(\xi(\mathbf{x})\right)=-k_{B}T\ln\int\delta\left(\xi(\mathbf{x}')-\xi(\mathbf{x})\right)e^{-V(\mathbf{x})/k_{B}T}d\mathbf{x}'
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Initial attempts on free energy landscape computation began from a very
 simple model of 1 collective variable chosen from an intuitive guess.
 Since we hope to study the association / dissociation of the ions, the
 most natural collective variable that would serve the purpose would be
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

.
 Hence, the relative Helmholtz free energy based on this collective variable
 would allow us to quantitatively determine the free energy barrier that
 separates the SSIP state from the CIP state.
 Numerous works have since published the one-dimensional free energy landscapes
 in 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

, most of which allowed both qualitative and quantitative distinctions between
 the SSIP and CIP states as two separate metastable states.
 [CITE 1D WORKS] For group 1 cations, Fennell et al.
 published detailed comparisons of the free energy trend down the same group.
 [P-JPhysChemB-2009-v113].
 He found that the CIP structure of LiCl has a very steep well of about
 XX kcal/mol, whereas the CIP free energy barrier of CsCl is very shallow,
 and for CsCl, the CIP structure is even less thermodynamically stable than
 the SSIP structure.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although the free energy of ion pairing in aqueous solutions in terms of
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 can give us a rough idea of the SSIP and the CIP behaviors of the system,
 it does not capture the dynamics of the solvent as hinted by Belch et al.
 [CITE], which was confirmed by the later work of Geissler et al.
 [P-JPhysChemB-1999-v103-Geissler].
 In the work of Geissler et al., they employed transition path sampling to
 characterize the behavior at the transition state [CHECK], and found that
 there are many probable transition pathways where collective motion of
 solvent molecules play an important role.
 A subsequent work by Ballard and Dellago also pointed out that using only
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 as a hypothetical reaction coordinate for this process is inherently a
 bad choice.
 [P-JPhysChemB-2012-v116-Ballard] They also found that the influence of
 the solvent for the NaCl reaction extends up to the third shell, consistent
 with what was found by Belch et al.
 [P-JACS-1986-v108-Belch].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Subsequent works have contributed a lot of efforts in determining the solvent
 effects of ion pairing, but a solid consensus on the solvent coordinate
 is yet to be made.
 The most popular opinion among recent publications has been imagining the
 number of water molecules in the first solvation shell of the cation (
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

) as a driving force for the ionic association.
 This viewpoint was clearly influenced from the ligand exchanging process
 commonly perceived by the inorganic chemist community, where they have
 put mechanistic labels of such process as either 
\shape italic
associative
\shape default
 (involving the expansion of the solvation shell as another ligand came
 close to the center cation before ejecting one water molecule) or 
\shape italic
dissociative
\shape default
 (involving the ejection of a water molecule from the cation before the
 association with another ligand), originally proposed by Eigen and Wilkins
 during the 1950s.
 [P-ChemRev-2005-v105-Richens, P-PureApplChem-1963-v6-Eigen, IB-EigenWilkins-196
5] Therefore, later works involved characterizing 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 as a solvent coordinate and later computations free energy landscapes of
 the ionic association in aqueous solution started to include this collective
 variable as well.
 [P-JChemPhys-2007-v127-Ikeda, P-JPhysChemC-2015-v43-Raiteri, P-JPhysChemC-2016-
v120-Roy, P-JCTC-2017-v13-Roy] The most common features in these works are
 that the free energy minima mostly occurs around the integer values of
 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

, and these minima are very narrow in the 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 dimension.
 Moreover, recent publications with two-dimensional free energy landscapes
 in the 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 coordinates revealed the fact that for group 1 or group 2 cations, the
 SSIP - CIP transition is usually characterized by an initial association
 of the cation and the anion from the SSIP coordinated state to an intermediate
 structure where the cation and the anion both have the CIP separation but
 the cation still have the same coordination number as the SSIP state, then
 a water molecule is ejected from the first solvation shell in a much faster
 process to form a CIP structure.
 The results indicate that for group 1 and group 2 cations, the preferred
 Eigen - Wilkins mechanistic label for the cation - anion association process
 in aqueous solution is the associative pathway.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite recent efforts in incorporating the 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 collective variable in free energy computations for this type of process,
 the contribution from solvent molecules in the outer solvation shell still
 remains unclear as the 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 coordinate does not include any water molecules in any outer solvation
 shells, nor does it include the contributions from the solvation shell
 of the anion.
 In this regard, a recent work by Mullen et al.
 found that by maximizing the likelihood of a linear combination of 3 collective
 variables out of their 73 candidates with respect to the crossing of the
 isocommittor surface [CHECK], there are two solvent coordinates that play
 significant roles in the ionic association reaction of NaCl in aqueous
 solution, which are the number of water molecules that are simultaneously
 coordinated with both the cation and the anion by forming bridges between
 them (
\begin_inset Formula $n_{B}$
\end_inset

), and the density of water molecules around the midpoint between the cation
 and the anion (
\begin_inset Formula $\rho_{ii}$
\end_inset

).
 [P-JCTC-2014-v10-Mullen] The interpretation with respect to 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{B}$
\end_inset

 collective variable is particularly interesting, as visualizing the 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{B}$
\end_inset

 coordinate in the transition state is consistent with the earlier proposal
 from the work of Belch et al.
 [P-JACS-1986-v108-Belch] If we also added the 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho_{ii}$
\end_inset

 coordinate into the mix, we would have another coordinate that takes the
 water molecules in the outer solvation shells into an account as well.
 Hence, the linear combination of the collective variables proposed by Mullen
 et.
 al.
 with maximum likelihood across the isocommittor surfaces [CHECK] represents
 the most likely reaction coordinate across the slowest motion across the
 actual free energy barrier between the CIP and the SSIP states, which indicates
 that having either one or two collective variables are not sufficient in
 describing the dynamics of the ionic association in aqueous solutions,
 and an optimum reaction coordinate across the barrier involves a specific
 linear combination of the collective variables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Areas of Improvement and Objectives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The work of Mullen et al.
 changed the perception of how we should approach this problem in a hugely
 significant manner by introducing a number of possible candidates to describe
 the dynamics of the solvent; however, there are still several obstacles
 for us to fully grasp the whole picture.
 There are two possible questions that arose from Mullen et al.
 First, although the proper reaction coordinate can be found by maximizing
 the likelihood of a linear combination of collective variables that go
 across the dividing surface between two isocommittor surfaces, there is
 a possibility that more than 3 collective variables are actually involved
 and a linear combination of 3 collective variables may still be inadequate
 to properly representing the slowest motion.
 Second, the work of Mullen et al.
 focused mainly in the SSIP - CIP transition, but did not discuss the dynamics
 of the bulk, so the mechanics of the ionic association from the bulk remain
 relatively little understood.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are several ways that can be used to identify proper reaction coordinates
 for a chemical reaction.
 The maximum likelihood method used in Mullen et al.
 is just one method among many other proposals of methods that allow us
 to study the most important coordinate of a chemical system, such as string
 method, markov state model (MSM), principal component analysis (PCA), diffusion
 map, and many other.
 [P-AnnuRevPhysChem-2013-v64-Rohrdanz] [CITE RELATED] Among these methods,
 MSM is one of the most widely used tools in biochemical simulations to
 identify different conformations of large biomolecules such as proteins
 or DNA.
 [CITE MSM WORKS] Besides being used to identify metastable states in the
 system, the information from MSM eigenfunctions also directly relates to
 different motions in a chemical system.
 Therefore, not only that MSM could give an insight for the slowest motion,
 MSM can also be useful in a stituation where a system with motions in a
 very similar timescale and the slowest motion cannot be fully distinguished
 from the next slowest motion in the system.
 This would allow us to study any possible secondary or tertiary motions
 and their possible effects on the primary motion across the free energy
 barrier.
 Besides, the information of each MSM eigenfunction can also be projected
 onto the collective variables space and we could determine each unique
 linear combination of the collective variables specific to each motion
 in the system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In accompanying a proper reaction coordinate which may have contributions
 from several collective variables, a multidimensional free energy landscape
 is needed to represent those collective variables to give a viable insight
 into the reaction mechanisms.
 However, the current capabilities limited the free energy computation to
 a two-dimensional space due to the high computational cost of multidimensional
 sampling.
 As relative free energy between two points in the collective variable space
 relates to the natural logarithm of the probability of going from one state
 to another, any free energy barriers are considered as rare event regions
 that are naturally less sampled for any unbiased molecular dynamics simulations.
 Hence, we have relatively little information to correctly determine the
 free energy landscapes around the barriers, which may cause errors in rate
 calculation and inaccurate description of the transition state - a crucial
 element for full understandings of the entire mechanism.
 For this type of problem, Cuendet and Tuckerman has noted the difficulties
 in the free energy computation of the ionic association reaction of NaCl
 in aqueous solution which presents challenges for any novel free energy
 computation methods that usually validate their models with the free energy
 landscape of alanine dipeptide with respect to their two dihedral angles.
 Compared to the free energy of alanine dipeptide, the free energy of NaCl's
 SSIP and CIP states differ only in the order of a few kcal/mol, prompting
 the need to make sure that we need a free energy calculation scheme that
 cannot produce a large error which would otherwise cause severe inaccuracies
 in the result.
 Moreover, the CIP feature of NaCl's one-dimensional free energy is relatively
 narrow, which implies that the free energy gradient is relatively rapidly
 changing and giving rise to statistical noise when averaging the free energy
 estimators.
 [P-JCTC-2014-v10-Cuendet]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The preferred method of free energy computation among the community has
 always been window-based simulations, where an average of a probability
 density or average force along a particular collective variable was computed
 in a restrained simulation environment to ensure adequate amount of sampling,
 especially in the rare event regions.
 Despite providing accurate results, the main disadvantage of this class
 of free energy simulation method has always been the cost, which scales
 as 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathcal{\mathcal{O}}(n^{D})$
\end_inset

 for a 
\begin_inset Formula $D$
\end_inset

-dimensional problem.
 Although it is also possible to perform a simulation in each window in
 parallel given that we know a good initial configuration in each window,
 this does not eliminate the scaling issue for a many-dimension problem.
 [P-JCTC-2013-v9-Wojtas-Niziurski] Another main issue in free energy simulation
 is the inherent statistical noises of the average probability density or
 an average force along a collective variable, which also produce noisy
 free energy landscapes that may become an issue for a chemical system with
 sensitive free energy profile.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to circumvent the two issues of free energy computations presented
 in the above paragraph, we need to first be able to quickly explore the
 free energy landscape to eliminate the need to perform windowed simulation
 while also collecting the needed information to compute the free energy
 landscapes, and then we need to find a reconstruction algorithm that ensures
 a smooth reconstructed data.
 The first task could be done using well-tempered metadynamics (WT-MTD)
 simulation, which has been shown in the work by Mones et al.
 to have fastest exploration of the free energy landscape compared to many
 other algorithms.
 [CITE GABOR 2016] During the WT-MTD simulation, biased instantaneous forces
 (BIFs) along the collective variables are collected and then later are
 unbiased using the known information of the deposited WT-MTD Gaussians
 to obtain unbiased instantaneous forces (UIFs).
 The UIFs could be treated as a noisy, unaveraged version of the average
 force along the collective variable commonly used in thermodynamic integration
 to compute the free energy landscapes.
 Therefore, a machine learning-based approach such as Gaussian process regressio
n (GPR) could be used to infer the most likely free energy landscape based
 on our training data of UIFs, providing a smooth reconstruction of the
 free energy landscape in any number of dimensions.
 [GABOR 2014/2016]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Organization of Chapters
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This dissertation presents our research which aim to address the problems
 highlighted in [REFER 1.3], and contains 6 chapters including this chapter.
 Chapter 2 is dedicated to discussing the theories of MSM and the projection
 of MSM eigenfunctions onto the collective variable spaces using tICA and
 subsequent dimensional reduction through matching pursuit (MP).
 Chapter 3 presents our application of MSM to the classical MD simulations
 of LiCl and NaCl in aqueous solutions and our discussions on the significance
 of the results in terms of the plausible SSIP - CIP transition mechanism
 based on the reaction coordinates found using MSM and the dynamics of the
 bulk.
 Chapter 4 discusses the theories of free energy computation and the best
 way to overcome the dimensionality problem using a combination of fast
 exploration through WT-MTD simulations and a machine learning-based reconstruct
ion of free energy with GPR to ensure a smooth reconstruction of the free
 energy surfaces in any numbers of dimensions.
 Chapter 5 features the applications of GPR to compute the two-dimensional
 free energy landscapes of LiCl and NaCl in the 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{+-}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $n_{+}$
\end_inset

 coordinates, which is the first application of a two-dimensional GPR calculatio
n beyond the peptide rotation models, and chapter 6 highlights the present
 challenges and possible future directions of this kind of research,
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
